[Music]
oh-ho watch this one what if you ate
nothing but pizza for a year now here's
a what-if scenario I can get down with
one year of a pizza only diet bring it
on
well okay that might not be as awesome
as it sounds
keep watching to find out what would
happen to your body if you ate nothing
but pizza for a whole year before we dig
in be sure to hit that subscribe button
and ring the notification bell to join
us here on the bright side okay here's
the first slice pizza is fourth on the
list of most craved foods in the US
every year more than 3 billion pizzas
are sold all over the country and the
number of pizza slices sold per second
reaches a whopping 350 but let's first
have a look at some nutrition facts
about a single slice of cheese pizza
when you eat a two-ounce slice you
consume approximately 168 calories
including 54 calories just from fat
alone it contains 9% of the total fat
daily value and 14% of your saturated
fat daily value you also get 5% of your
daily norm of cholesterol and 14% of
your daily intake of sodium the
carbohydrates in just one slice of pizza
equal 7 percent of your daily value as
for a big slice of pepperoni pizza
it has 311 calories and let's be honest
here who stops after eating just one
slice of this gooey goodness I don't see
any hands raised out there there have
been people who conducted some pretty
bold experiments they try to eat pizza
and nothing but pizza for seven days in
a row and although these amateur
researchers were connected with one
another and followed this unusual diet
in
dependently their accounts sound
surprisingly similar after the first day
of the pizza diet the experimenters felt
some discomfort in their stomachs a
number of them even suffered from slight
cramps on the morning of the second day
some of these researchers noticed that
their faces were puffy and their hands
were a bit swollen besides they were
thirsty and their mouths felt really dry
the majority drew the sad conclusion
that this was due to all that pizza the
day before throughout the day a couple
of the experimenters suffered from their
first case of heartburn they also had
fits of uncontrollable burp egg by the
evening a lot of people started to feel
woozy and unsteady the third day didn't
start so good at all some fell groggy
and others were wobbly and disoriented
most of the experimenters constantly
felt thirsty and were unable to quench
this thirst with water the fluid just
got trapped in their body and caused
swelling a much bigger problem was
constipation some of the researchers
didn't have any bowel movements for a
whole three days of eating only pizza
you probably understand how
uncomfortable that was also the
heartburn that manifested itself on the
day before became more severe on the
fourth day many of the experimenters
woke up to discover some red spots and
blemishes on their faces they had
problems keeping their eyes open during
the day and went to bed early feeling
completely exhausted some of the
researchers stated that on the fifth day
of the experiment they felt that their
minds weren't as sharp as before and
their thoughts were scattered their
faces legs and feet were so swollen
their eyes were dry and in general lots
of people felt a bit strange a majority
them were extremely sleepy and sluggish
and their stomachs were in knots
on the sixth day nothing changed
dramatically however the ones who
decided to hit the gym felt weak and
unmotivated on top of that they noticed
a significant decrease in their
endurance and strength the seventh and
thankfully final day of eating only
pizza made almost everybody draw a
disappointing conclusion this isn't a
food you can survive on for long it
negatively affects your psychological
and physical performance and pretty soon
you actually start craving wait for it
vegetables that's what happens if you
narrow your diet down to pizza for just
a week you can imagine how eating pizza
for a whole year will influence your
body but first let's have a look at what
bodily processes go on when you eat
pizza as soon as you bite off the first
slice the pleasure center of your brain
gets switched on you start drooling well
many of us drool and this releases
certain digestive enzymes they
immediately start to break the carbs
from your pizza down into sugars these
sugars can be converted to energy that
will fuel your body later after 10 to 15
minutes the sugar enters your
bloodstream
although the fat from the pepperoni and
cheese slows this process way down if
you've gulped your slice down too fast
or you're gluten or cheese sensitive
your body might show its displeasure
with some bloating twenty minutes later
all the carbs you've devoured are
already in your bloodstream if your
cells don't need additional sugar they
may reject it this can lead to high
blood sugar levels eventually high blood
sugar results in inflammation
this means a wide range of problems from
nerve damage and poor blood circulation
the cardiovascular disease and
infections in any case in the end the
sugar from your pizza gets to your liver
and turns into fat boy this just sucks
all the romance out of eating pizza now
doesn't
but wait there's more half an hour after
you devoured that pie your body stops
producing garel and the hunger hormone
you feel full and happy but your stomach
is working hard to digest you're
relatively heavy meal this process
elevates the level of your triglycerides
also known as fat in the blood lucky for
you it's temporary and if you're healthy
lasts only for six hours otherwise this
may cause serious health problems the
more fatty food you eat the higher your
triglycerides remain constantly elevated
levels of triglycerides tend to displace
good cholesterol in your blood and
harden and clog your arteries in this
case you might face a higher risk of
heart attack or stroke it just keeps
getting better and better after 45
minutes to an hour your blood vessels
may start having difficulties expanding
due to the sticky fats that Pizza
contains this leaves less room for blood
flow naturally your blood pressure
increases you should know that a diet
high in fats I'm looking at you pizza
often results in blood clotting that's
why you should never experiment with too
much pizza in your diet if you have some
heart disease risk factors several hours
after your meal your blood sugar will go
back to normal but your triglycerides
levels will still be exceptionally high
that's why your hunger hormone Guerlain
might encourage you to set off in search
of leftovers ah that explains it you
better have a healthy snack before this
happens in general a slice of pepperoni
pizza every now and then won't hurt you
it won't even influence your weight but
if you limit your food choices
exclusively to pizza you could do some
irreversible damage to your health
high blood pressure diabetes obesity
insulin resistance and high cholesterol
can be unwanted
and dangerous consequences of such food
preferences on the other hand there are
ways to make your favorite dish
healthier if you choose pizza with a
generous layer of veggies on top
you'll get more nutrients and vitamins
from it for example tomatoes contain a
powerful antioxidant called lycopene
scientists have found a connection
between this antioxidant and a lowered
risk of certain cancers
besides lycopene is good for your blood
vessels as well as your heart bones and
skin surprisingly cooked tomatoes are
even healthier because the lycopene
levels in them are higher and it's
easier for your body to absorb the
antioxidant
[Music]
so you can see that while your health
may suffer dramatically if you ate only
pizza for a year there's nothing wrong
with enjoying it from time to time
and this will work out even better if
you choose thin whole-wheat pizza cross
avoid dipping sauces and go for a local
pizzeria instead of fast-food chains
an even better option is to cook pizza
from scratch at home so what's your
favorite kind of pizza let us know down
in the comments remember to give this
video a thumbs up share it with your
Pizza loving friends and hit the
subscribe button to stay on the bright
side of life
[Music]